# Quantum CGNN
An extension of the CGNN discovery algorithm to quantum scenarios

In the previous chapters, we noticed that standard causal modeling techniques cannot provide a causal explanation for quantum correlations. In particular, we noticed that the statistical pattern of dependencies and independencies in the EPR-Bell scenario is so weird that any discovery algorithm that assumes the CMC and CFC assumptions cannot provide a causal graph for the scenario. We referred to this puzzle as the causal problem of entanglement and examined various proposals for overcoming this puzzle in Chapter 3. The present chapter offers an alternative way of tackling the causal problem, which is empirical in spirit. I exploit recent advances in Machine Learning (ML) to build a framework to adjudicate between various proposals for the causal problem empirically. To this end, I take a classical causal discovery algorithm called Causal Generative Neural Network (CGNN) and adapt it to the causal problem in light of philosophical considerations discussed previously. The key idea is to compare the predictive power of different candidate models and find the candidate that can generate data whose distribution is “closer” to the original quantum data. How to generate data using a candidate model and how to quantify the distance between two distributions are details that will be discussed during the chapter. The essential point, however, is that the present framework can empirically compare a wide range of proposed models for the causal problem without getting involved in the CMC-CFC dilemma.
